**Day Offs / Vacations / Holidays Ver 1.0.**
---------------------------

### **7 Things to Do Before Leaving the Office for Vacation**


1. *Let people know when you will be gone.* Remind your regular contacts of your vacation schedule a few weeks ahead of time so they can plan projects accordingly. Prior to leaving, create an auto-reply for your email that gives the dates you will be out of the office and also lets others know if (or how often) you will be checking emails. Include the name, phone number and email of an alternate point of contact for those who require immediate assistance.
2. *Be Proactive.* Months before your planned vacation (or surgery, etc.), discuss a back-up plan with your manager. Be prepared with several ideas about who can do what responsibilities while you are away. Create a document that contains a complete and thorough list of tasks. Driving this project will not only bring added value to your role, but will begin the process of allowing staffers to truly be able to be away with peace of mind.
3. *Cross-Training is not only for athletes.* Once it is decided who will be taking on your responsibilities, plan adequate time for your back-up to spend time with you at your desk and with your manager. Your goal is to have you and your manager feel confident that your back-up can be depended upon to get the job done. The better prepared your back-up is, the easier it will be for you to relax while away.
4. *Turnover – Before and After.* Meet with your back up before and after time away. Keep notes for the “next” time so you will remember what went well and what fell through the cracks.
5. *Avoid the email avalanche upon reentry.* Spend time showing your Inbox to your back-up so that she/he can act on your behalf. Doing this will ensure that you will need to be interrupted only for true and unforeseen emergencies.
6. *Leave a list of important passwords.* It’s crucial for someone to know how to get into your computer to manage ongoing to-do’s. If they are unable to open an email, or review a status update saved on your desktop, it becomes an issue for your client and the company, as well as a potential vacation disruption.
7. *Clean your office before you go.* Not only will your colleagues thank you, you’ll also be returning to a more pleasant work space. Check desk drawers and cabinets for perishable foods and toss your leftovers from the office refrigerator. Clear off the top of your desk and discard clutter. Look at your office from the eyes of an associate, or a client passing by your cubicle or space. Save energy while you are out by unplugging your electronics, such as lamps, chargers, portable sound systems and anything else that pulls energy from an outlet. Thorough preparation before you leave is the best way to fully unwind on your much-needed break.
